I first need to point out that I generally hate action films--they just aren't a genre I generally would go to see. However, my teenage daughter saw the film and DEMANDED that we immediately go to an IMAX-equipped theater and see it as soon as possible. Had I not agreed, I think she would have threatened force or threaten to leave home, so I reluctantly agreed. I'm pointing all this out up front so you'll understand that if I didn't give this movie a 10 and found a few minor problems with the plot, it's probably because of my bias. However, for me to give an action film a 9 is very, very unusual--it was a terrific film and almost earns a 10.

As far as action goes, it was nearly non-stop and there were more eye-popping stunts in it than nearly any film you could see. Plus, I truly recommend that if you do have an IMAX theater nearby that is showing it you go there and not to a regular theater. The sounds, the sights and the action are just amazing on this huge screen--and in hindsight I probably should have taken my hearing aids out before the film began--I DIDN'T need them! For many, this will make the film a must-see, though I admit that it was was a bit tiring after a while--for an old fogy like myself, maybe there was a bit too much action--though teens and action fans will adore it.

The characters were excellent--with the possible exception of Batman. He was fine, but I wish he'd have stopped mumbling in his deep voice. This made him a lot less interesting and perhaps less likable than the villains!! As for the villains, the Joker was great and very, very sadistic and I liked Harvey Dent as well (especially after his cool makeup job late in the film). Oddly, perhaps my favorite character was a guy who was only a bit character--Tommy 'Tiny' Lister who played one of the scariest prisoners I have ever seen in film. His bit part on the ferry boat was really exceptional.

Overall, this film is better than any superhero film I have ever seen and much better than the earlier Batman films. My only serious problem was the ending--what Gordon and Batman agree to do made no sense at all and wasn't necessary. Still, with such amazing eye-candy, who am I to complain? A wonderful ride and a must-see movie for action and superhero fans. HOWEVER, it is a very violent film intended for adults--I would not take kids or even some teens to the film--it's THAT dark and intense.

As of today (7/26/08), this is by far the highest rated film on IMDb. If these numbers can be believed, this film is better than THE GODFATHER, CASABLANCA, GONE WITH THE WIND and 12 ANGRY MEN! Let's have a bit of perspective here--it's a very, very good film but the cult members out there need to get a grip.